All right.
So in this lecture, we're going to be covering some of the tools that you'll need in terms of software
and hardware to start developing for iOS first and foremost.
You will need a Mac of some sort.
Now it doesn't have to be the latest or the greatest but it just has to be able to run OS 10.
So it's now called macOS.
And the reason why we need macOS is because we need to install a piece of software called Xcode that
will allow us to develop our iOS app.
So this means that iPads - even iPad Pros - are out of the question.
But if you had an iMac or if you have a MacBook or even a Mac Mini it will work just fine.
So if you don't already have a Mac and you don't want to invest a lot in you know a brand spanking new
top of the range mac book then one of the cheapest ways is probably just going onto eBay and getting
a second hand Mac Mini for around $500.
And it's a pretty great deal and it will do just fine.
But what do you do if you only have a PC?
Well the other option is that you can go for something called macincloud.com
So if you head over to macincloud.com, they have a service where essentially they offer you a Mac
in the cloud. So you can be using your PC and you have a remote connection to a Mac that is just for
you and it's ready got Xcode pre-downloaded, so you can just get up and go.
Now, there's a lot of people who ask about Hackintosh or how can you run a Mac, sort of dual boot, a mac
on your P.C. without having to pay for service like macincloud.com.
Well there's a number of ways that you can do this.
But one of the major downsides that Apple is very strict about controlling their software and the environment
in which their software runs.
So even if you're using macincloud.com or even if you're using a Hackintosh solution, you won't be able
to run your app on a physical iPhone device you own.
The only way that you can do that is by having an actual Mac, but you will be able to run it on a simulator
inside Xcode.
So this is a simulated version of an iPhone.
And for all intents and purposes it will work just as well.
It's just, say, if you're really excited about having your app on your iPhone, then you really need to
find a way of either borrowing somebody's Mac or, you know, getting one cheaply.
The best resource, according to past students, is a website called Hackintosh.com. It talks in detail
about how to run a macOS on a PC. But I would still recommend to try out some of the earliest solutions
rather than going towards building a Hackintosh.
It's just that we've had a lot of students on the in-person program bootcamp who've tried to do this
and it's always given them a lot of headaches.
So if you can really try and avoid this. This is almost the last-ditch solution.
Now the software that you'll be using is Xcode and this is a piece of software that's written by Apple
and allows you to write code, allows you to design your app, as well as run your app within the simulator
that it comes with.
And this is completely free and in the next lecture we'll be showing you how to download it and how
to get it set up. But in order to be able to download the latest version of Xcode which is Xcode 11,
you're going to need to update your Mac operating system to macOS Catalina which is also known as
10.15
Now while you might be able to download Xcode 11 on the last version so the most up to date version
of macOS Mojave or 10.14
A lot of the features towards the end of the course especially when we start talking about Swift UI
and using some of the features around that, you will need to update to Catalin. To check which version
of macOS you're running is super simple. Simply just head to the left upper corner where you've got
the Apple symbol. And then go to "About This Mac" and you should be able to see the versioning right there.
Now in addition to being able to download and use the latest version of Xcode, Catalina also offers
some cool features including a better photos app, notes, reminders, as well as something that I was really
excited by which is called Sidecar, which allows you to use your iPad as a dual-screen with your Mac.
In order to update the latest version of macOS, all you have to do is head over to the Apple symbol again
go to System Preferences and then go to Software Update. Here,
you should be able to see the update for macOS Catalina and you can simply click through the wizard to
update your macOS.
Now another thing to note when you're updating your macOS is to check the age of your laptop or your
desktop, because there are certain hardware requirements in order for us to be able to install the latest
version of macOS.
So here included a list that Apple has given to show which Macs can actually run the latest version of
macOS.
So check your computer against this one to see if you meet the requirements.
But if you do have any difficulties updating your macOS, then this might be one of the reasons.
And if this happens to you, it might be that you have to go down the macincloud.com route or you might
just have to pick up a cheap version of a Mac Mini off eBay.
But that's a tip that tripped up some people when they're updating their OS.
So when you're testing your app, you've got the choice of either testing it on a physical device if you
own an iPhone or an iPad.
So because the course is aimed at teaching you how to make apps for iPhone a lot of the designs that
you'll be making a lot of the project stubs will have the design and layouts optimized for iPhone. So
you can still follow along with everything we do in the course with an iPad but just be aware that some
of the designs might look a little bit stretched and they might not look exactly the same as you see
on the iPhone, but it will work just fine. If you don't have an iPhone, you don't have to run out right
away and get one.
This is something that I would recommend you know once you realize that you're really into this or if
you're at the point where you're about to release on the App Store then you have to test your app on
a physical device.
It's at this point when you would actually get an iPhone. So, as I mentioned Xcode comes bundled with an iOS
simulator and it's sort of like a virtual phone that runs on your computer and you can essentially, you
know, use the rotate gestures, the shake gestures... You can zoom in and out. You can tap etc. So it's just
a simulated iPhone and that works just as well.
The only times when it doesn't really work so well is when you are using notifications or if you're
using Apple Health or Apple Home or some of those things it can get a little bit tricky.
Another thing that you should always ask yourself before you make any app is: "Do you actually need an app?"
or can you actually make do with a mobile responsive website?
Now because we have a mobile app development agency as well at the London App Brewery, one of the things
that we tend to recommend - we have a lot of clients who come to us and say, you know, "I want you to make
this app" and we actually spend a lot of time turning people away and telling them "Look, you can get this
made much quicker and much cheaper by just getting a web designer to make a website for you."
that's mobile responsive; that scales nicely on the phone because unless you're tapping into some of
the sensors within the phone, say, if you need the location or if you need to be able to send people notifications -
something that is inherent about the phone that you need.
Otherwise, if you just need to display information then making an app is a very time- and money costly
way of going about that.
So always think about whether you actually need to make an app before you make any app.
And finally, we're just gonna mention that prior to Xcode 7, ...
so Xcode 6. In order to actually download the app that you coded up, that you developed, within Xcode
onto your physical iPhone device that you own,
you actually had to pay Apple $99 a year in order to be on the Apple Developer Program.
So as of Xcode 7,
so I that was September 2015 when it launched, you are now able to do this on any free Apple account.
So all you need is just your normal iTunes account which you use to download apps and we'll be able
to get your code and your app onto your physical iPhone device.
Now when would you consider signing up for Apple Developer Program?
This is when you're ready to launch your app onto the App Store and start generating revenue.
So I would recommend that try to delay signing up for the Apple Developer program as long as you can
because you're charged on a yearly basis - rolling essentially.
So if you're not yet ready to take advantage of the Apple Developer program, if you haven't got your
app together yet, if you're not ready to upload to the App Store, then there's actually no point paying
Apple for that privilege.
So, build your app, test it thoroughly. Once you're ready and about to launch it to the App Store then
start paying for your Apple Developer Program license.
And this gets you access to something called iTunes connect.
This is a portal where you can upload your apps. You can check your app analytics. How many times has it
been downloaded? How many people are using it? You can check your sales. You can see how much money you're
making everyday et cetera et cetera.
So this is something that we're going to cover in one of the last section and we guide you through how
to actually upload an app to the App Store.
So all of that is coming up.
All right.
So those were all the tools that you'll need in order to get started.
And in the next lesson, I'm going to show you how to install and setup Xcode so that you'll be able
to get up and running very quickly and we can get started making our first app!